doc,bgpv1: Add some failure scenarios (#31249)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/network/bgp-control-plane-operation.rst

.. _Resilient Hashing: https://www.juniper.net/documentation/us/en/software/junos/interfaces-ethernet-switches/topics/topic-map/switches-interface-resilient-hashing.html

Peering Link Down
-----------------

If the peering link between the BGP peers goes down, usually, both the BGP
session and datapath connectivity will be lost. However, there may be a period
during which the datapath connectivity is lost while the BGP session remains up
and routes are still being advertised. This can cause the BGP peer to send
traffic over the failed link, resulting in dropped packets. The length of this
period depends on which link is down and the BGP configuration.

If the link directly connected to the Node goes down, the BGP session will
likely be lost immediately because the Linux kernel detects the link failure
and shuts down the TCP session right away. If a link not directly connected to
the Node goes down, the BGP session will be lost after the hold timer expires,
which is set to 90 seconds by default.

Mitigation
~~~~~~~~~~

To make link detection failure fast, you can adjust ``holdTimeSeconds`` and
``keepAliveTimeSeconds`` in the BGP configuration to the shorter value.

> However, the minimal possible value is ``holdTimeSeconds=3`` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, the minimal possible values are ``holdTimeSeconds=3`` and
```

> ``keepAliveTimeSeconds=1``. The general approach to make it much faster is to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``keepAliveTimeSeconds=1``. The general approach to make failure detection faster is to
```

use BFD (Bidirectional Forwarding Detection), but currently, Cilium does not
support it.

Cilium Operator Down
--------------------

If the Cilium Operator goes down, PodCIDR allocation by IPAM, and LoadBalancer

> IP allocation by LB-IPAM are stopped. Therefore, the new advertisement and
> withdraw of the PodCIDR and Service VIP routes will be stopped as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IP allocation by LB-IPAM are stopped. Therefore, the advertisement of new
and withdrawal of old PodCIDR and Service VIP routes will be stopped as well.
```

Mitigation
~~~~~~~~~~

There's no direct mitigation in terms of the BGP. Kubernetes will eventually
restart the Cilium Operator, and the routes will be advertised and withdrawn as

> usual.

Reviewer: Maybe we  should mention here that running more than 1 operator replicas may help to mitigate this?

Service Losing All Backends
---------------------------

> Service backends are all gone due to the outage or configuration mistake. BGP
> Control Plane behaves differently depending on the Service's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If all service backends are gone due to an outage or a configuration mistake, BGP
Control Plane behaves differently depending on the Service's
```

``externalTrafficPolicy``. When the ``externalTrafficPolicy`` is set to

> ``Cluster``, the Service's VIP kept advertised from all nodes selected by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``Cluster``, the Service's VIP remains advertised from all nodes selected by the
```
